now Al jazer has obtained a draft
document that says Hamas has proposed a
three-stage ceasefire plan in response
to mediation by Qatar in Egypt it
involves the exchange of Israeli
captives for Palestinian prisoners
reconstruction of Gaza and the complete
withdrawal of Israeli forces we can now
speak to Muhammad nazal who's a member
of hamas's political Bureau about this
thanks for your time with us on Al jazer
um I'm looking at the draft agreement
right here first of all can you explain
why Hamas proposed this agreement in
three stages what was the thinking
behind
that to begin with the uh proposal
received by Hamas following the Paris
conference speaks of three stages as a
result Hamas in the
response was committed to these three
phase process
however Hamas was more specific as they
proposed certain deadlines the first one
comes at 45 ceasefire the second also 4
45 days and so is the third the four
these time limits were uh specified by
Hamas themselves another
issue the category
of captives to be released were also
specifi the first phase will see the
release of children below 19 years of
age as well as nonmilitary women
civilian women and Elders the second
phase will see the release of all the
Israeli captives men and soldiers and
the third one will be for the Rel relase
of dead bodies kept with both sides this
is the specifities or the specifics of
Hamas response to Paris paper um Mr
nazal Hamas has said that any hostage
deal has to include a comprehensive
ceasefire that would end the war in Gaza
and lead to a reconstruction effort as
well as the lifting of The Siege but we
know that Israel in the past has said
that it won't commit to ending the war
as part of any deal now looking at this
draft agreement there are many details
here and it could be safe to assume that
the Israelis won't accept some of the
points in it what are hamas's red
lines as you know there are very
specific details and among these details
cannot be compromised by Hamas the first
demand is to put an end to the Israeli
War to bring the Israeli killing machine
to a halt do you think that we will
accept the war to continue against our
civilian population this is not
acceptable another issue we wish to see
the Israeli occupation forces
withdrawing from Gaza Strip entire
entirely uh we don't think that the
Israelis are willing to remain in Gaza
Strip that's why the demands raised by
Hamas are lawful and reasonable the K
prime minister described Hamas response
as a
whole as positive that's why our
response we believe is realistic and our
demands are
reasonable but on this issue you just
said that a full ceasefire is is one of
your condition I on this issue in the
past Hamas said that there must be a
full ceasefire as part of any agreement
but in this draft agreement that you put
together we see that it's in the second
stage of the agreement and not in the
first 45 days is there a reason for that
and is that a concession that's being
made by
Hamas we put it this way in order to
test the waters in order to test there
are we have certain concerns we have
even fears that the Israelis will not be
committed to the agreement we also
believe that the entire agreement may be
undermined that's why we put the total
and permanent ceasefire in the second
phase where more agreements will be
reached throughout the three
stages We No Doubt will raise our
ultimate demand which is permanent
ceasefire without the ceasefire no other
agreements can be materialized on the
ground have you gotten guarantees from
the mediators that they will in fact be
the guarantors of any agreement uh
that's been agreed
on we have proposed five parties to act
as guarantors qar Egypt turkey
Russia and the United Nations these five
parties are concerned to ensure the
permanent ceasefire and to act as
guarantor but this will be taking place
once both sides reach an agreement we
are waiting for the response from the
Israeli occupation government we are
waiting to see the reply to the
proposals made by Hamas in response
therefore we expect a negotiation to
start once negotiations start any
obstacles can be ironed out on the way
to reach a final agreement
whereby we can dot the eyes and cross
the tees okay and just let me ask you
one final question your reaction to What
the president of the US Joe Biden said
to this draft agreement calling it a
little over the
[Music]
top we do not expect uh the American
president to come up with a better
statement he is totally biased the
American Administration is totally
biased he was part of the war w on Gaza
by providing the political and legal
cover for the Israelis let alone the
military and financial assistance
provided to the Israeli occupation
forces he was with Netanyahu hand in
hand he was even supporting all the
moves taken by Netanyahu that's why we
did not expect a better response from
the American administrations and
regardless of the Biden statement we
believe that this is a preliminary
response and we expect the US
Administration will come up with a final
decision are they willing for the war to
continue or they want to see a permanent
ceas fire okay we'll leave it there
thank you Muhammad nazal we thank you
for joining us on Al jazer mammad nazal
is from hamas's political Bureau